the Hamas ran Health Ministry in Gaza
says at least 12 people have been killed
in an Israeli attack the spokesman for
the ministry said missil struck the
Indonesian Hospital in the north of the
Gaza Strip heavy fighting was heard at
the hospital and tanks have reportedly
surrounded the facility this comes after
Israel's military carried out another
night of operations inside Gaza
explosions and flares were seen in the
south of the region Israel's Army says
it's Miss defense system also shot down
a number of rockets coming from
Gaza tww special correspondent AIA
Ibrahim is covering the story for us in
Jerusalem and she told us more about the
attack on the Indonesian
Hospital well the wh the director of the
who has condemned the attack saying that
it was an appalling attack and we know
that or we are told that uh this was a
result of Israeli tank fire and
according to uh Gaza Health officials in
the Hamas controlled uh strip 12 people
died as a result of uh that attack among
them patients and uh medical staff
Israel uh says that uh terrorists had
opened fire uh towards IDF troops
operating around uh the hospital and
that it's uh Israel then targeted the
source of enemy fire but that no sh
were fired toward the hospital uh uh
itself now there have been in recent
days warnings uh by the Israeli military
uh to people in southern Gaza to leave
from there where they had previously
been told to move for safety what's the
latest on
that it's a it's an unclear situation
about what's what people are supposed to
do exactly what civilians at this point
are to do uh Nicole remember Southern
Gaza the southern part of the strip is
where the the Israeli military had been
telling civilians for weeks to evacuate
too supposedly because that would uh you
know keep them out of Harm's Way and
we're talking about one of the most
densely populated uh spots on this Earth
and asking its population to then
squeeze and about half of of that space
had already drawn condemnation a huge
concern for humanitarian organizations
and now over the past couple of days
we've heard reports that there are
Flyers being dropped on the southern
part of the strip asking people to
evacuate unclear where they're supposed
to uh uh go to exactly as people have
already as I mentioned been asked to
evacuate South at the same time up until
today um the um arabic speaking spokes
person for the Israeli Defense Forces
been tweeting urging people to evacuate
from the north to the South into a safe
Zone that appears to be in the southern
western parts part of of the strip but
it's difficult to imagine how much more
people could really squeeze into a
smaller uh part uh piece of land with
already a a dire humanitarian situation
uh that we've you know been that
organizations humanitarian organizations
have been warning about virtually
non-stop for the past month or so
US President Joe Biden says he believes
the deal with Hamas regarding the
hostages is closed do we know any
details on what this deal could look
like well a deal like that it's not done
until it's done we've heard from katari
officials um who have been the main
negotiators the main mediators in this
deal that uh what remains are logistical
challenges but remember even with a deal
like this even logistical challenges can
be uh uh very controversial and take
time uh to uh to implement we've been
here before it feels like there were a
number of deals that felt like they were
going to come through but then in the
end fell apart but what we are told
according to reports again no
confirmation that this deal would
involve the returning of some 50 Israeli
hostages me uh children uh mothers and
the elderly and in exchange uh there
would be some sort of uh pause of fire
for a couple of days unclear just how
many this would of course come at as as
a huge relief to the families of the
hostages who have just been in absolute
anguish and Agony since the 7eventh of
uh of October but again these are all
still reports no confirmation yet and
with a deal like this it's done only
when it's when it's done and these
people are safely back home that was
DW's AI Ibraham in Jerusalem thanks for
that update
as we heard US President Biden says he
believes a deal is close to free some of
the hostages held in Gaza and
temporarily paus the finding to enable
Aid deliveries here's what we know about
the hostages held by
Hamas bring them home that's the message
these protesters in Tel Aviv want their
government to
hear their mothers fathers siblings
cousins held by Hamas for well over a
month now
I expect them to bring them back that's
the only
goal Nothing Else Matters not politics
not wiping out her mass or not none of
that matters there were over 200
civilian hostages here they didn't do
anything they didn't take part in the
war they were taken from their
homes heras took about 240 hostages
during its deadly crossb border Rampage
into Israel on October 7th ranging from
9 months old to people in their 80s
dozens were migrant workers from
Thailand while many more were Israelis
with dual citizenship Russians Germans
French argentinians Americans and many
more that's created enormous pressure
internationally to get a deal done to
release them one of the few people to be
released so far 85y old Yak liit she
described being held in tunnels and
large Halls under Gaza
others may be held in hospitals or other
facilities same H this video released by
the Israeli Army allegedly shows one
hostage being brought inside a Gaza
hospital by Hamas gunman Israel's
government says it's doing everything it
can we are prevented from discussing
details of the prisoner deal that we are
pushing
for we want them all
back whether we do it in one stage or
two we will do it in a way that will
return entire
families that's as clear as the
sun Qatar has been the center of
negotiations the country has close
relations to Hamas meanwhile the US
Germany and other countries have set up
meetings around the world to keep up
pressure on
negotiators it's unclear what hamas's
demands are Beyond a ceasefire something
Israel has until now
refused meanwhile a group of premature
babies evacuated from gaza's besieged
alifa hospital has arrived in Egypt for
urgent medical care Medics brought the
babies into Egypt bya the Rafa border
crossing the only way out of Gaza that
Israel doesn't
control an urgent
evacuation premature babies bundled into
ambulances to get them out of
Gaza the World Health Organization says
all of them are fighting serious
infections the babies had been trapped
at gaza's largest hospital for days
several others died after incubators at
alifa stopped working amid power
outages United Nations teams helped
coordinate the evacuation working with
Israeli soldiers to get the tiny
patients out of the hospital which
Israel claims is home to a Hamas Command
Center
the babies were brought South some
reunited with their
mothers I have twin daughters I did not
know about their condition today I saw
them for the first time since I gave
birth to them thank God I was reassured
that they were fine I was always
communicating with shifa and they told
me you can come and take them because
their health has improved but I could
not reach
them waiting ambulance es then whisked
them across the rougher Crossing to
Egypt taking parents where
possible they are innocent children
premature babies toddlers I left my
three children in Gaza I didn't even get
a chance to hug them because I couldn't
leave my daughter in this state
something might happen to them they
could be bombed my message to the world
is enough these are innocent children we
are just protecting our country our
country
Palestine
the children's agency UNICEF says it's
working with Egyptian authorities to
find out the circumstances of each
evacuated baby including those whose
relatives are not with them doctors say
they have a long road to recovery ahead
with many of them critically
ill Ahmed al- mandari is the regional
director for the Eastern Mediterranean
at the World Health Organization the
agency that led this join un mission to
evacuate the premature babies from the
alifa hospital and I asked him how and
where the babies are
now those 28 babies in fact shifted to
Cairo today morning um 12 of them have
been shifted to a hospital in the new
capital uh administrative capital in
Cairo and 16 of them remain there in
hospitals in Alish um so as you said in
your report the status of those 28 pap
is really very critical very bad MH but
not all of the babies that were brought
out of shifa Hospital could be moved
across the border could they why is
that um we moved 31 babies and as you
you know mentioned 28 of them moved to
Cairo three of to Egypt three of them
remained there uh based on the
information I received you know recently
that their parents their mothers decided
to keep them there in the hospitals in
RAF so that's why you know we have only
babies how difficult was the
coordination of this evacuation with you
know heavy fighting especially in and
around Gaza City right
now yeah I must say it was very risky
very critical Mission but we decided you
know in collaboration with the
Palestinian red Cent and other
authorities to move forward and bring
them from a shifa hospital this is based
on the visit our teams made two days
back to a shifa hospital and they have
seen the critical situation there in the
hospital as a whole but definitely for
those 31 babies you know in in that
hospital lacking the basic health care
facilities uh you know risking their
lives to to death you know in in in ours
if we didn't move them uh you mentioned
the the baby's parents were they able to
leave with them for Egypt or are they
stuck back in
Gaza yeah we managed to get four mothers
you know joining their babies recently
but for the others the Ministry of
Health there and the red Cresent
Palestinian red Cresent is working hard
you know to identify or to approach uh
the parents and the mothers of the rest
of the babies and I'm sure soon they
will be able to join them looking more
broadly at the situation inside Gaza and
the attack on gaza's Indonesian hospital
that we heard of today that is the last
one still operating in the north of the
strip what are you hearing from your
colleagues on the
ground uh the teams you know our teams
in of of wh are we I just in fact
finished a meeting one hour back with
with our teams there and they said the
hospital is considered as one of the
largest hospitals in the north of H
which hosts around which serves around
300,000 uh people in that area
including 16,000 in gabalia Camp uh it
contains currently you know around 700
people including the staff the patients
the relatives as well as the displaced
one you know using it as a shelter uh it
is almost nonfunctioning either due to
the direct attack of the hospital and
due to the lack of fuel lack of medical
supplies so the situation there is
really very bad and we are worried we
are very worried about those people who
are sick admitted in the hospital are
your colleagues aware of any Hamas
activities in that
facility I mean according to the
information we are receiving you know
from the teams there on the ground and
inside the hospital they do not see any
sort of military operations by by Hamas
you know in that hospital it is full of
patients uh staff relatives of the
patients and displaced people
there are still many sick and injured
people inside Gaza close to the Rafa
boarding es border especially with Egypt
and the who has repeatedly warned about
the growing threat of disease spreading
there what can you tell us about the
efforts that are underway to try and
help or evacuate people and help them to
leave yeah as I said you know we are
coordinating with the Egyptian
authorities the ministry of Filth and
population here in Egypt as well as the
Egyptian red Cent uh as well as
coordinating with the Palestinian
authorities and the Palestinian red
Cresent and other agencies to move those
injured patients and they need you know
Extra Care and extra services in the
Egyptian side and I'm really sorry to
say that you know like for example in
the shifa hospital there are patients
who are injured uh some of them had
spinal injuries uh many of them started
to have infections in the wounds and
doctors cannot operate on those with
spinal injuries and and you know because
of the lack of the services and the lack
of water and and electricity the lack of
the medical supplies including um
anesthesia and sedating medications so
this is exactly happening in in other
hospitals in that was Ahmed al- mandari
from the World Health Organization in
Cairo thanks so much for those insights
and for your
time